1 Implemented Learning Algorithm Description
The learning algorithm implemented, for this programming assignment monstrosity, is the k-nearest neighbor learning algorithm. This algorithm’s entire modus operandi does not consist of creating some sort of structure from having learnt a certain training data set. On the contrary, it’s modus operandi consists of comparing a certain query sample to the samples that are most similar to the query sample. The algorithm then decides based on the distribution of classifications for the most similar samples, how the algorithm should classify the current query sample.

2 Dataset Description
There are many different genera of datasets that are available, on the information super highways and byways, and can be used to train and test the machine learning algorithms. The one’s of particular interest for this programming assignment are the following: car evaluation database; Agaricus-Lepiota mushroom dataset; protein localization sites on e.coli dataset.
2.1 Car Evaluation Database
The database is a collection of information regarding the characteristics of particular consumer passenger vehicles which can facilitate a consumer in deciding which vehicle he should purchase. This particular dataset is comprised of 1728 instances that each have 6 attributes. The names of the six attributes are as follows: buying, maint, doors, persons, lug_boot, and safety. The buying attribute describes a vehicle’s purchase price as very high (v-high), high, medium (med), and low. 
The maint attribute describes a vehicle’s maintenance cost as very high (v-high), high, medium (med), and low. The doors attribute describes the number of doors on a particular vehicle, and the values are as follows: 2, 3, 4, 5-more. The persons attribute describes the number of individuals that can legally be seated in a particular vehicle, and the values are as follows: 2, 4, more. The lug_boot attribute describes the size of a particular vehicle’s storage compartment as small, medium (med), or big. The safety attribute describes a particular vehicle’s safety as low, medium (med), or high. The classification attribute determines the acceptability of a particular vehicle for purchase, and the values are as follows: unacceptable (unacc), acceptable (acc), good, very good (v-good).
2.2 Agaricus-Lepiota Mushroom Dataset
The database is a collection of information regarding the characteristics of particular mushrooms in the Agaricus Lepiota family in order to determine whether it is edible or poisonous. This particular dataset is comprised of 8124 instances that each have 22 attributes. The names of the 22 attributes are as follows: cap-shape, cap-surface, cap-color, bruises?, odor, gill-attachment, gill-spacing, gill-size, gill-color, stalk-shape, stalk-root, stalk-surface-above-ring, stalk-surface-below-ring, stalk-color-above-ring, stalk-color-below-ring, veil-type, veil-color, ring-number, ring-type, spore-print-color, population, habitat. 
The cap-shape attribute describes the shape of the mushroom cap as bell (b), conical (c), convex (x), flat (f), knobbed (k), and sunken (s). The cap-surface attribute describes the surface of the mushroom cap as fibrous (f), grooves (g), scaly (y), or smooth (s). The cap-color attribute describes the color of the mushroom cap as brown (n), buff (b), cinnamon (c), gray (g), green (r),  pink (p), purple (u), red (e), white (w), or yellow (y). The bruises? attribute describes whether bruising of the mushroom is true (t) or false (f). The odor attribute describes the smell of the mushroom as almond (a), anise (l), creosote (c), fishy (y), foul (f), musty (m), none (n), pungent (p), or spicy (s). The gill-attachment attribute describes the attachment of the gills to the cap as attached (a), descending (d), free (f), or notched (n). The gill-spacing attribute describes the spacing of the gills on the cap as close (c), crowded (w), or distant (d). The gill-size attribute describes the size of the gills as broad (b) or narrow (n). The gill-color attribute describes the color of the gills as black (k), brown (n), buff (b), chocolate (h), gray (g), green (r), orange (o), pink (p), purple (u), red (e), white (w), or yellow (y). The stalk-shape attribute describes the shape of the stalk as enlarging (e) or tapering (t). The stalk-root attribute describes the root of the stalk as bulbous (b), club (c), cup (u), equal (e), rhizomorphs (z), rooted (r), or missing (?). The stalk-surface-above-ring attribute describes the surface above the stalk ring as fibrous (f), scaly (y), silky (k), or smooth (s). The stalk-surface-below-ring attribute describes the surface of the stalk below the ring as fibrous (f), scaly (y), silky (k), or smooth (s). The stalk-color-above-ring attribute describes the color of the stalk above the ring as brown (n), buff (b), cinnamon (c), gray (g), orange (o), pink (p), red (e), white (w), or yellow (y). The stalk-color-below-ring attribute describes the color of the stalk below the ring as brown (n), buff (b), cinnamon (c), gray (g), orange (o), pink (p), red (e), white (w), or yellow (y). The veil-type attribute describes the type of veil as partial (p) or universal (u). The veil-color attribute describes the color of the veil as brown (n), orange (o), white (w), or yellow (y). The ring-number attribute describes the number of rings as none (n), one (o), or two (t). the ring-type attribute describes the type of ring as cobwebby (c), evanescent (e), flaring (f), large (l), none (n), pendant (p), sheathing (s), or zone (z). The spore-print-color attribute describes the print color of the spores as black (k), brown (n), buff (b), chocolate (h), green (r), orange (o), purple (u), white (w), or yellow (y). The population attribute describes the population of mushrooms as abundant (a), clustered (c), numerous (n), scattered (s), several (v), or solitary (y). The habitat attribute describes the environment of the mushroom as grasses (g), leaves (l), meadows (m), paths (p), urban (u), waste (w), or woods (d). There are 2480 missing attribute values for the stalk-root attribute. The classification attribute determines whether a mushroom is edible (e) or poisonous (p).
2.3 Protein Localization Sites On E.Coli Dataset
The dataset is a collection of information regarding the protein localization sites on E.coli. This particular dataset is comprised of 336 instances that each have 8 attributes. The names of the 8 attributes are as follows: sequence name, mcg, gvh, lip, chg, aac, alm1, alm2. 
The sequence name attribute describes the Accession number for the SWISS-PROT database, and the values are unique identifiers. The mcg attribute describes the McGeoch's method for signal sequence recognition, and the values are between zero and one. The gvh attribute describes the von Heijne's method for signal sequence recognition, and the values are between zero and one. The lip attribute describes the von Heijne's Signal Peptidase II consensus sequence score, and it is a binary attribute with values 0.48 and 1.00. The chg attribute describes the Presence of charge on N-terminus of predicted lipoproteins, and it is a binary attribute with values 0.50 and 1.00. The aac attribute describes the score of discriminant analysis of the amino acid content of outer membrane and periplasmic proteins, and the values are between zero and one. The alm1 attribute describes the score of the ALOM membrane spanning region prediction program, and the values are between zero and one. The alm2 attribute describes the score of ALOM program after excluding putative cleavable signal regions from the sequence, and the values are between zero and one. 
The classification attribute describes the localization site, and the values are the following: cp (cytoplasm); im (inner membrane without signal sequence); pp (perisplasm); imU (inner membrane, uncleavable signal sequence); om (outer membrane); omL (outer membrane lipoprotein); imL (inner membrane lipoprotein); imS (inner membrane, cleavable signal sequence).

3 Technical Implementation Details
The datasets that were obtained from the UCI website first need to be rearranged into the correct format so that the code can process the data. First, a separate file is created which contains the name, type (discrete or continuous), and allowable values (or range) of the attributes. Then, the datasets are split into training sets and test sets, which was achieved by randomly selecting a percentage of the samples in the dataset and placing these samples into the test set from different parts of the dataset and the remain samples were placed into the training set. The attributes characteristics and values are read into ArrayList structures. The continuous attributes are then discretized by selecting the value that best splits the data, giving the highest entropy. For the k-nearest neighbor algorithm, the algorithm is tested for a range of k values from 2-20.

4 Programming Implementation Design
The code implementation of this programming assignment is comprised of six classes, which are ProgAssign, ProgAssignFileReader, NearestNeighbor, Sample, Attribute, and ContAttributeList. The Attribute class states what is an attribute; it also has getters and setters for the different variables of the attribute; and it has a method for comparing two attributes for equivalency and a method for parsing the comma delimited string of the allowable values for the particular attribute. The ContAttributeList class states what is a continuous attribute; it also has getters and setters for the different variables of the continuous attribute; and it has a method for sorting an unsorted sample list of the continuous attribute and a method for determining the appropriate value at which to split the continuous attribute. The Sample class states what is a sample; it also has getters and setters for the different variables of the sample; and it has a method for parsing the comma delimited string of the sample values and a method for printing a particular instance of the sample. The NearestNeighbor class states what is the k-nearest neighbor algorithm and its associated methods, which are as follows: a method that runs the algorithm; a method that gets the k-nearest neighbors of a particular instance; a method that verifies the classification of a particular instance; and a getter method for the accuracy of the algorithm. The ProgAssignFileReader class states what is the file reader for this assignment; it has some getter methods; it also has a method that takes in the names of the files for the attributes names, the training set, and the test set; and it has a method for creating an attribute and a method for creating a sample set for either the training or testing set. The ProgAssign class is the main driver class for the programming assignment; it takes in the names of the files (as mentioned above) from the command line; it makes sure that these were correctly entered; and it displays the accuracy of the learning algorithm.

5 Experimental Results
The experimental results of the k-nearest neighbor machine learning algorithm and its accuracy in classifying the car, mushroom and ecoli datasets can be seen in the following table.
Table 1: The experimental accuracy achieved by the k-nearest neighbor algorithm on the datasets
